The President: Hi, everybody.
I'm here at Children's National
Medical Center in Washington,
D.C., visiting with some
kids being treated here
all the time for asthma and
other breathing problems.
Often, these illnesses are
aggravated by air pollution --
pollution from the same
sources that release
carbon and contribute
to climate change.
And for the sake
of all our kids,
we've got to do
more to reduce it.
Earlier this month, hundreds
of scientists declared
that climate change is no
longer a distant threat --
it "has moved firmly
into the present."
Its costs can be measured in
lost lives and livelihoods,
lost homes and businesses;
and higher prices for food,
insurance, and rebuilding.
That's why, last year, I
put forward America's
first climate action plan.
This plan cuts carbon pollution
by building a clean energy
economy - using more clean
energy, less dirty energy,
and wasting less energy
throughout our economy.
One of the best things we can
do for our economy, our health,
and our environment is to lead
the world in producing cleaner,
safer energy - and we're already
generating more clean energy
than ever before.
Thanks in part to the
investments we made
in the Recovery Act, the electricity
America generates
from wind has tripled.
And from the sun, it's
increased more than tenfold.
In fact, every four minutes,
another American home
or business goes solar -- and
every panel is pounded into
place by a worker whose job
cannot be shipped overseas.
We're wasting less energy, too.
We've doubled how far our cars
and trucks will go on a gallon
of gas by the middle
of the next decade,
saving you money at the pump,
and we're helping families
and businesses save billions
with more efficient homes,
buildings, and appliances.
This strategy has created
jobs, grown our economy,
and helped make America more
energy independent than we've
been in decades - all while
holding our carbon emissions
to levels not seen
in about 20 years.
It's a good start.
But for the sake of our
children, we have to do more.
This week, we will.
Today, about 40% of America's
carbon pollution comes
from power plants.
But right now, there are no
national limits to the amount of
carbon pollution that
existing plants can pump into
the air we breathe.
None.
We limit the amount of toxic
chemicals like mercury, sulfur,
and arsenic that power plants
put in our air and water.
But they can dump unlimited
amounts of carbon pollution
into the air.
It's not smart, it's not safe,
and it doesn't make sense.
That's why, a year ago, I
directed the Environmental
Protection Agency to build on
the efforts of many states,
cities, and companies, and come
up with commonsense guidelines
for reducing dangerous carbon
pollution from our power plants.
This week, we're unveiling
these proposed guidelines,
which will cut down on the
carbon pollution, smog,
and soot that threaten the
health of the most vulnerable
Americans, including
children and the elderly.
In just the first year that
these standards go into effect,
up to 100,000 asthma
attacks and 2,
100 heart attacks will be
avoided - and those numbers will
go up from there.
These standards were created in
an open and transparent way,
with input from the
business community.
States and local governments
weighed in, too.
In fact, nearly a dozen states
are already implementing their
own market-based programs
to reduce carbon pollution.
And over 1,000 mayors have
signed agreements to cut their
cities' carbon pollution.
So the idea of setting higher
standards to cut pollution
at our power plants is not new.
It's just time for Washington
to catch up with the rest
of the country.
Now, special interests and their
allies in Congress will claim
that these guidelines will kill
jobs and crush the economy.
Let's face it, that's
what they always say.
But every time America has set
clear rules and better standards
for our air, our water, and our
children's health - the warnings
of the cynics and naysayers
have been wrong.
They warned that doing something
about the smog choking
our cities, and acid rain poisoning
our lakes, would kill business.
It didn't.
Our air got cleaner, acid
rain was cut dramatically,
and our economy kept growing.
These excuses for inaction
somehow suggest a lack of faith
in American businesses
and American ingenuity.
The truth is, when we ask
our workers and businesses
to innovate, they do.
When we raise the
bar, they meet it.
When we restricted
cancer-causing chemicals
in plastics and leaded
fuel in our cars,
American chemists came up
with better substitutes.
When we phased out the gases
that depleted the ozone layer,
American workers built
better refrigerators
and air conditioners.
The fuel standards we put in
place a few years ago didn't
cripple automakers; the American
auto industry retooled,
and today, they're selling
the best cars in the world,
with more hybrids, plug-in, and
fuel-efficient models to choose
from than ever before.
In America, we don't have to
choose between the health
of our economy and the
health of our children.
The old rules may say we can't
protect our environment
and promote economic growth at
the same time, but in America,
we've always used new technology
to break the old rules.
As President, and as a
parent, I refuse to condemn
our children to a planet
that's beyond fixing.
The shift to a cleaner energy
economy won't happen overnight,
and it will require tough
choices along the way.
But a low-carbon, clean energy
economy can be an engine
of growth for decades to come.
America will build that engine.
America will build the future.
A future that's cleaner,
more prosperous,
and full of good jobs -- a future
where we can look our kids
in the eye and tell them we did
our part to leave them a safer,
more stable world.
Thanks, and have
a great weekend.